>> Sreenivasan: THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT HAS ADDED 21 MILLION
AMERICANS TO INSURANCE ROLLS,
TWO-THIRDS OF THEM THROUGH
MEDICAID, AND 20 REPUBLICAN
SENATORS REPRESENT STATES THAT
EXPANDED MEDICAID THROUGH
OBAMACARE.
GOVERNORS, OF COURSE, DON'T GET
TO VOTE ON ANY CONGRESSIONAL
LEGISLATION, BUT THEY DO HAVE A
BIG VOICE AND STAKE IN HEALTH
CARE.
AT THIS WEEK'S NATIONAL
GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION IN
PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND, THERE
WAS BIPARTISAN SKEPTICISM AND
EVEN RESISTANCE TO THE
REPUBLICAN PLAN.
"WASHINGTON POST" REPORTER SEAN
SULLIVAN WAS AT THE GOVERNORS
GATHERING AND JOINS ME NOW FROM
WASHINGTON.
THE GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION
SUMMER MEETING NOT USUALLY
SOMETHING THAT WE CARE MUCH
ABOUT BUT RIGHT NOW WHY ARE THE
SPOTLIGHTS SO TUNED IN ON THIS
CONVERSATION?
>> THIS IS USUALLY A REALLY LOW
KEY AFFAIR THAT DOESN'T
GENERATE A LOT OF NEWS.
BUT THIS TIME IT WAS A CLOSELY
WATCHED GATHERING AND THE
REASON WAS HEALTH CARE.
A LOT OF REPUBLICAN SENATORS WHO
ARE ON THE FENCE RIGHT NOW ABOUT
VOTING FOR THIS SENATE BILL ARE
LOOKING TO THEIR HOME STATE
GOVERNORS, THEY'RE LOOKING TO
THEM FOR GUIDANCE.
THEY'RE LOOKING TO SEE HOW THEY
RESPOND TO THIS BILL.
BECAUSE IN THE END IT'S GOING TO
BE THE GOVERNORS THAT ARE GOING
TO BEAR A LOT OF THE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR SOME OF THE
COVERAGE LOSSES THAT MAY COME
ABOUT AS A RESULT OF THIS BILL,
SOME OF THE CUTS TO MEDICAID
THAT MAY COME ABOUT AS A RESULT
OF THIS BILL.
SO THEY ARE WATCHING THESE
GOVERNORS VERY CLOSELY BEFORE
THEY ULTIMATELY SAY, "AM I GOING
TO VOTE YES, AM I GOING TO VOTE
NO?"
THERE ARE A LOT OF SKEPTICAL
REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS.
>> Sreenivasan: AND BRIAN
SANDOVAL, THE GOVERNOR FROM
NEVADA, SEEMS TO BE THE BELLE
OF THE BALL HERE.
HE SEEMS TO HAVE A LOT OF SWAY.
>> YEAH, IF YOU'RE GOING TO
WATCH ONE REPUBLICAN, AND YOU
WANT TO FIGURE OUT HOW THIS
WHOLE THING IS GOING TO SHAKE
OUT, WHETHER THIS BILL WILL PASS
OR NOT, YOU SHOULD WATCH BRIAN
SANDOVAL.
HE IS VERY, VERY POPULAR IN THE
STATE OF NEVADA.
HE WAS THE FIRST REPUBLICAN
GOVERNOR TO EXPAND MEDICAID
UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
AND HE SAID HE IS REALLY, REALLY
WORRIED ABOUT THE CUTS TO
MEDICAID, THE LONG-TERM FEDERAL
SPENDING CUTS TO MEDICAID THAT
THIS SENATE BILL WOULD IMPOSE.
HE MET INDIVIDUALLY WITH VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE, WITH OTHER
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS, HE
LISTENED AS PENCE GAVE A
LONG, DETAILED SPEECH.
HE LISTENED DURING A BREAKFAST
WHERE ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS
EXPLAINED WHY HE SHOULD GET
BEHIND THIS.
BUT EVEN AFTER 48 HOURS OF THAT
HARD SELL, HE WAS STILL
SKEPTICAL, HE STILL HAD HIS
WORRIES.
>> Sreenivasan: SOMETHING ELSE
THAT'S CONCERNING A LOT
GOVERNORS SEEMS TO BE THE AMOUNT
OF MONEY DEDICATED FOR OPIOID
ADDICTION, OPIOID ADDICTION
RELIEF AND HOW THESE STATES
ARE GOING TO HAVE TO DEAL WITH
THIS SIGNIFICANT CRISIS THEY
HAVE ON THEIR HANDS.
>> Reporter: THIS WAS SOMETHING
THAT WAS ADDED TO THE LATEST
VERSION OF THE BILL AT THE
REQUEST OF A COUPLE OF
REPUBLICANS FROM OHIO AND WEST
VIRGINIA, THEY ADDED A DEDICATED
$45 BILLION FUND TO TREAT OPIOID
ADDICTION IN THESE STATES ACROSS
THE COUNTRY.
AND THE GOVERNORS WE TALKED TO
WERE PLEASED, THEY SAID, LOOK,
THIS IS A STEP IN THE RIGHT
DIRECTION BUT A LOT OF SKEPTICS
SAY, LOOK, $45 BILLION, GIVEN
THE PRETTY BIG CUTS THAT WE'RE
SEEING TO FEDERAL FUNDING OF
MEDICAID IN THE LONG TERM,
THAT'S NOT A LOT.
>> Sreenivasan: SEAN SULLIVAN
OF THE WASHINGTON POST, THANKS
SO MUCH.
>> THANKS, HARI.